>> [Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People need to keep on help
uncover what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
>> George Noory: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
And what a festive time a year,
especially during the Halloween
season, where people dress up
and you go trick or treating,
and it's just a fun time.
So we thought it would
be very appropriate
to bring you a witch,
Leanne Marrama.
>> Leanne Marrama: Hi.
>> George Noory: Who
happens to be a good witch.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Thank you very much.
>> George Noory:
What's the difference
between a good witch
and a bad one?
>> Leanne Marrama: Well, the
difference between a good witch
and a bad witch is whether
or not you're a good person
or a bad person, and I
consider myself fairly good.
There are times where
I can be naughty.
Naughty's not a problem.
>> George Noory:
Sometimes naughty is nice.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Naughty is great sometimes,
but I don't consider
myself evil or bad.
I'm just like everyone else.
I have my belief system.
I have a different
way I look at God or,
I like to say, the goddess.
I have a different
way that I believe.
Just, you know, I'm not bad.
>> George Noory: Have you
come across bad witches?
>> Leanne Marrama: I've come
across a lot of bad witches.
>> George Noory: You have.
>> Leanne Marrama:
And bad people,
because they're bad people.
Not because they're a witch.
>> George Noory: They were
bad before they were a witch.
>> Leanne Marrama: They were
bad before they lit a candle
and put on the pointy hat.
They were bad anyways, you know.
I've met a bad minister.
I've met bad people who were
Christian, you know what I mean?
It wasn't their religion's
fault.
It was their fault.
>> George Noory: Well,
doesn't it bother you though
that you might have those
kinds of people involved
in witchcraft, which further
gives witchcraft a bad name?
>> Leanne Marrama: It's
like anything in life.
In anything, you're going to
meet good people and bad people.
You get away from the bad people
and you don't think about them,
whether you're a witch or not.
That's just really good
advice I just gave everyone.
>> GN: For every ten
witches, how many are good?
>> Leanne Marrama:
I would say nine.
>> GN: That's huge.
>> Leanne Marrama: It is huge.
>> GN: That's probably better
than the human population,
in terms of good and bad people.
>> Leanne Marrama: I just
don't think we're that bad.
You know, it's a lot of hype.
Hollywood did us a number.
We're always running
around turning somebody
into possibly a toad
or a chicken.
I have no idea, you know,
and that's Hollywood.
I've never been like that.
I'm generally a good person.
>> GN: Well, as a good
person, I assume a lot
of people come to
you for advice.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, they do.
>> GN: Help.
Relationships.
>> Leanne Marrama: Absolutely.
>> GN: Jobs.
Things like that.
>> Leanne Marrama:
I'm a working psychic.
>> GN: Can spells generate the
good things in life for people?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Yes, it absolutely can.
Spellwork is using your
power of your own mind
and your own tenacity
to survive.
Spellwork's like a prayer,
let's say, or a mantra.
It is about focusing on what you
want, believing you can have it.
Using little things like this.
This is a mojo bag, and
it was created for money.
It's a charm bag, and you
hold on to this charm bag.
>> GN: Let me see
this little thing.
>> Leanne Marrama: Smell it.
It smells wonderful.
It smells like money.
You carry that, and
it will draw it in.
you put your own energy
into it, and you bless it.
It becomes like a lucky charm
that will draw in
different things.
>> GN: I bet you couldn't
get on a plane with this.
>> Leanne Marrama: I did.
[Laughter]
>> GN: You did?
>> Leanne Marrama:
That's how I got it here?
>> GN: Did you check
your suitcase?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Oh no, I put it away.
I put it away.
But I know people--
>> GN: So you went through
security with this thing?
>> Leanne Marrama:
In my pocketbook.
>> GN: They didn't
even question it?
>> Leanne Marrama: Nope.
>> GN: That's TSA for you.
[Laughter]
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah.
>> GN: Right on.
Let's talk a little bit
about love and love curses.
How do you do that for someone?
Someone comes to you and
says, you know, "Leanne,
I want a relationship.
I want to get going."
Sounded like Bill
Clinton for a while.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Yeah, you did.
You did.
>> GN: "Leanne, tell
me about that.
I want a relationship."
But how do you do that?
>> Leanne Marrama: There
are many different ways
that I can help people
with a relationship.
I can use puppets or
candles or magical oils.
And what I tell them to do.
So I tell them first,
know what you want.
Don't just be like,
"I want something."
Know what you want.
Make a list.
>> GN: Or who you want.
>> Leanne Marrama: Not always.
I like to leave that open.
>> GN: You do?
>> Leanne Marrama: When you're
trying to do a love spell,
all right, let's say,
you know, you want--
>> GN: I want.
I want.
>> Leanne Marrama: You
want someone in particular.
Let's just say you
want, I don't know.
Giselle [assumed spelling].
I mean, you know,
you have to say
to yourself, "Is that logical?"
[Laughter]
>> GN: Why do people need a
spell to get that relationship?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Because spells work.
It's like a prayer.
It's like looking up to
the heavens and saying,
"Universe, I'm lonely.
Please draw in somebody
special for me."
And it will happen, because let
alone a spell will, with herbs
and with color, signal
the universe.
Listen, everybody's
running around like a bunch
of [inaudible] usually, right?
And sometimes if
you're the person
that stomps their feet
and says, "I want it.
I want it now," I think
the divine looks down on us
and says, "Hey, what's
this person
over here, doing something?"
And then they notice you.
It's about if everyone's
walking straight, maybe you need
to raise a hand and
scream to the heavens.
But also, here's the thing.
You have personality
responsibility.
If you're sitting
in your house--
>> GN: You have to
make it happen.
>>Leanne Marrama: And yeah,
you have to make it happen.
You can't just sit on
your tush, light a candle
on a Friday night, for love.
That's when it works.
>> GN: And expect it to happen.
>> Leanne Marrama: And
expect it to happen.
You have to get out there
to meet people, you know.
>> GN: But it gives you
that glow, doesn't it?
That energy people can feel.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah, so
when you go out, you're noticed.
You get noticed.
This is my advice to
people who are really,
really working up love spells.
And if you're lonely out there,
you really want somebody,
don't just look for one person.
Look for the universe.
Draw everyone in,
as many as you can.
And on Friday nights, light a
candle and celebrate yourself.
When you love yourself,
all the love
in the world will come to you.
Because that's what
this is all about.
This is why we're alive.
We're alive for love.
Everything else is just gravy.
So get out there.
Go to the bar.
Meet people.
You know, maybe the
bar isn't your scene.
Maybe you need to
join a dating site.
>> GN: Whatever.
>> Leanne Marrama: Maybe
you need to do something.
Do whatever.
Get out there and live.
>> GN: But you have
to do something.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Have to do something.
>> GN: Same thing with a job.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Damn straight.
>> GN: To position
yourself for the job,
you have to school
yourself, train yourself,
and maybe a little extra boost
from a witch might help, huh?
>> Leanne Marrama:
It will, absolutely.
And I've seen people, you know.
Woman bought a candle.
Bought a mojo candle.
Came to me and said,
"It didn't work.
It didn't work."
And I said, "Oh my god.
Show me the jobs you applied to.
Maybe we can figure out
what the situation is."
She didn't apply for anything.
She thought the job was
going to come to her
because she lit a candle.
That's ridiculous.
You have to get out there.
You have to apply for
a job to get a job.
>> GN: Yet strange things
have happened, right?
>> Leanne Marrama: Ah, yes.
>> GN: Case in point, let
me give you an example.
Let's say you do a job curse for
someone to help them find a job.
And somebody is driving, right.
They're driving.
Maybe they're going to go
to the library and pick
up some information, and
they get a flat tire.
And then somebody stops and
helps you with that flat tire,
and it's a guy who's
looking for someone like you.
Did the curse do that?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Oh no, the blessing.
>> GN: Or it was something else?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Curses make jobs go away.
A job curse--
>> GN: Oh, so a curse
is always bad?
>> Leanne Marrama: Curse is
always something negative.
>> GN: Okay.
>> Leanne Marrama: You want
a job spell to draw it in.
you want a job blessing.
So you did the job blessing, all
right, and yeah, that helped.
That helped.
And I do, I believe in magic.
That's what I think.
I believe in magical things.
I believe in miracles.
>> GN: Synchronous everything.
>> Leanne Marrama: It's a
really, really, really sad world
if we stop believing
in miracles.
>> GN: So the good
things you call blessings?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes.
Curses are the bad
things that can happen.
It's not necessarily bad.
I'd have to say, you
know, I have cursed.
I've cursed people, and
you know what I've found?
I've found the best solution,
better than cursing,
is to bind somebody.
I get better results.
I feel better about
myself in the day.
And what binding
is, it ties somebody
up so they can't harm you.
And you know what I
always add in there?
You can't harm yourself either.
You know what, I'm just
going to send you away.
And you know, one of the most
significant curses you can give
to somebody is exactly
what they want.
>> GN: Let's say you go
out on a Friday night.
You go to your favorite
little lounge,
and you're sitting there
having a good time.
Do people come up to you
and say, "Are you a witch?"
>> Leanne Marrama: Not
always, but sometimes.
>> GN: People who
know you, do they talk
about witchcraft with you?
>> Leanne Marrama: People who
know me who aren't witches.
I'm really fortunate.
I happen to live in the
city outside of Salem,
that I feel like
I'm very welcome.
You know, I went to
my class reunion.
Nobody was like,
"Oh, Leanne's weird."
I think that I kind of
fly under the radar.
I wear black a lot
but other than that,
I don't think people would
come up to me and say that.
>> GN: Are most of
your friends witches?
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
I have a very large
group of friends.
I'm a mother and my son's
involved in football.
I'm a family woman.
>> GN: Do they introduce
you as a witch?
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
>> GN: They don't.
>> Leanne Marrama: They do not.
>> GN: Ah-ha.
>> Leanne Marrama: When
people do realize I'm a witch,
generally, they're nonplussed
or they book a psychic party.
[Laughter]
>> GN: Let's say before they
even know you're a witch.
You come across as very
friendly, effervescent.
>> Leanne Marrama: Thank you.
>> GN: And so they figure,
"Wow, what a nice woman.
This is fun.
This is pleasant."
From the moment they
realize that you're a witch,
does their persona
change with you?
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
Only one thing happens
when people realize I'm a
witch, that are non-witches.
They generally ask
for spellwork.
>> GN: They do?
>> Leanne Marrama:
They ask for help.
>> GN: They don't run away.
>> Leanne Marrama:
They don't run away.
They need the witch.
>> GN: And what do they want?
Blessings or curses?
>> Leanne Marrama: Most
people want blessings, I find.
I find that people want
love in their life.
And the people that are looking
for curses that have come to me,
they've been dramatically
harmed, and they really,
really need to go
through a process.
You know, to call it a
curse, it seems shallow.
Because what people do do is
they take all this emotion
of being so tragically harmed.
Because I will not do curses
unless it's justified.
>> GN: I was going to say that.
Have you turned down people?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Yes, yes I have.
If somebody--
>> GN: Here's a thousand
dollars.
I want a curse on this
person I can't stand.
Would you do it?
>> Leanne Marrama:
No, not at all.
>> GN: Two thousand.
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
>> GN: Three.
>> Leanne Marrama: Not even.
I have to live with myself.
That refusal is priceless.
I will not harm somebody
unless--
>> GN: A million?
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
no, I have to still
live with myself.
I have a whole life to live.
Money is nothing.
>> GN: Have you ever
given a curse,
I want you to think about this--
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes.
>> GN: -- and somebody
really got hurt?
>> Leanne Marrama:
I don't feel--
>> GN: You didn't expect to do
it like that, but it happened.
>> Leanne Marrama: The one
thing I have done isn't a curse,
was to send someone away.
I sent them away, and this
is my greatest regret.
I sent somebody away,
and that's my big thing.
Go away. Just go be
great somewhere else.
And then I missed them.
So you have to think long
and hard before you send
someone away or bind them.
>> GN: Can you bring them
back once you send them away?
>> Leanne Marrama: I think
it has to happen naturally.
I think it has to
play itself out.
And I think, in some
ways, I have to realize
that it's how you react to
trauma or stress or an argument
or a fight or something
you don't like someone did.
It's more common of us
as people, you know.
Are you just going to just
throw everything with a curse?
First, always communicate
and see if any other ways.
I find that through
the years, I mean,
I think I've grown as a witch.
I think it's the first
thing we do try to do.
>> GN: That's important.
>> Leanne Marrama:
I've grown as a witch.
I don't like to curse.
I find it weird now.
I like to heal.
I find that relationships, right
before you take out that dagger
to end a relationship
and curse somebody,
first try to heal it first
and first try to walk away.
And then first try to banish.
Cursing should not even be.
Just walk away from the person.
>> GN: Beyond Belief, of
course, is interactive,
so let's go to one of
our viewer phone calls.
>> Hi, this is Axana
[assumed spelling].
I wondered, at what age did
you realize you are a witch?
>> GN: What a great
accent she had, huh?
>> Leanne Marrama: That
was a beautiful accent.
You sound hot, honey.
>> GN: That was a witch accent.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Yeah, that was.
That's magical in itself.
Let me say.
I realized I was a witch
probably when I was
about in high school, in junior
high kind of puberty age.
I started to have
really strange dreams.
And I think it was
the dead coming to me.
Dreaming was the first place
because I believe
I was traveling
and I got really
connected to a book I read.
And I was very young
at the time.
And it was called "Power of
the Witch" by Laurie Cabot,
and it was phenomenal.
>> GN: "Power of the Witch."
>> Leanne Marrama:
"Power of the Witch."
Everybody had talked about
there was a witch in all of us.
And I realized there
was one inside of me,
and then I realized that my
mother [inaudible] for fun
to row cards, not
professionally.
But my family kind of played
with the metaphysical, you know.
Good Catholic people, but
played with the metaphysical
on the side, and you'll find a
lot of you out there do that.
Some of the things,
especially Italian, you know,
the Malocchio [assumed
spelling] and all that,
that's not church sanctified.
That's dabbling with the
dark gods there, you know.
>> GN: What is the big kettle
that you see so many witches
in books and in Hollywood,
again, brewing?
What do you guys--
>> Leanne Marrama:
Oh, that's a cauldron
and it's a lot like cooking.
Spells remind me of cooking.
When people ask me
about spellwork,
it reminds me of cooking.
You got a recipe, you're
going to put it in there.
You're going to mix it up
and you're going to
put energy in it.
>> GN: Eyes of newt.
>> Leanne Marrama: And all that.
>> GN: This and that.
You put that stuff in there?
Spiders?
>> Leanne Marrama: Well,
not so much spiders.
I'm afraid of spiders.
>> GN: A witch who's
afraid of spiders?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Yes, and snakes too.
It's awful.
>> GN: I'm not a fan
of snakes either.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah,
it's just they slither.
But it's okay.
>> GN: We did bring you
a little present though.
>> Leanne Marrama: Oh,
please don't tell me a snake.
>> GN: Yes, a little
boa constrictor.
>> Leanne Marrama: Oh
god, that's horrible.
>> GN: And you're
going to hold it.
>> Leanne Marrama: I'll
have to [inaudible].
Then I'm going to--
>> GN: Give it a spell.
>> Leanne Marrama: -- zap you.
That's not going to--
>> GN: You would put a
curse on me, wouldn't you?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Yeah, I would.
But yeah, that's not--
>> GN: So what is in
that stuff, that kettle?
>> Leanne Marrama: It depends.
It depends what the
spell requires.
Each spell requires
different ingredients.
If I was going to make a
love spell or a love mixture,
I would add things that
made me feel loved.
Roses. Hibiscus.
Beautiful flowers
with fragrant scents.
>> GN: Lavenders.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Lavender, to relax you.
Beautiful things.
And I'd put it in
there and I would--
>> GN: Boil it up.
>> Leanne Marrama: Cook it up.
You can burn it, let
it rise to the heavens.
>> GN: What kind of toys
did you bring us here?
>> Leanne Marrama: All right.
>> GN: What do we have here?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Well, we have something
so we can make a mojo bag.
We have white sage
for protection.
>> GN: I have heard
that sage helps get rid
of evil spirits in the house.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes
it does, and negativity.
And this is something I
want you to carry with you.
It's for travel.
It's a protection mojo bag.
And it's not just protection.
It's everything.
We have wolf hair here.
It's from a wolf, and
it was taken harmlessly.
And yes, witches
respect above all.
>> GN: And what will this do?
>> Leanne Marrama:
This is for protection.
And you get a silver mojo bag.
Silver because we're
going to work
with the energy of the moon.
We're going to make
something for George.
>> GN: Going to turn
me in a werewolf.
[Howling sounds]
>> Leanne Marrama: Nah, this
is going to protect you.
You fly a lot.
And we're all traveling
and it's scary out there.
I'm going to put a little
sage because sage banishes--
>> GN: I will not be
able to get through TSA
with one of these things.
[Laughter] I'm telling you.
I'll probably get arrested.
>> Leanne Marrama: Well,
then put it in your suitcase.
>> GN: We'll have to have it
analyzed before I go through.
She's setting me up, isn't she?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah,
I'm just [inaudible].
What can I tell you?
This is tiger's eye.
It's going to keep away any
negativity and jealousy.
>> GN: All right.
>> Leanne Marrama: See,
because some of the negativity.
One of the worst evils
in the world is not evil.
It's not like we think.
It's jealousy.
And say, if you ever get into
a situation where you feel
like you have a good thing going
and somebody else wants to rain
on your parade, this is
why I'm giving this to you.
So nobody rains on your parade.
[Inaudible] It will protect
from jealousy and negativity
and just crappy stuff,
crappy people.
Go away. Because we all
need positive people
and we all need good energy.
>> GN: My little bag.
What do you call it?
>> Leanne Marrama:
This is a mojo bag,
and I have put [inaudible]
in it.
>> GN: Okay.
>> Leanne Marrama: There's
vegetable, mineral and animal.
So from the animal, I've--
>> GN: A wolf hair.
>> Leanne Marrama: Wolf hair.
Once again, taken humanly.
And some sage.
And a tiger's eye.
And the energy of this bag.
See, and I'm going
to charge it for you.
I'm going to put some
energy in it, all right.
I put in this bag protection.
May nothing harm you
or those you love.
And great success.
Here.
>> GN: Now, do I have to keep
that on my body all the time
or do you just put
it away somewhere?
>> Leanne Marrama: Some
people put it away.
It's best to carry it with you.
Most of us carry these mojo bags
on us on the left-hand side.
Some people who don't want to
carry stuff around carry it
in your bedroom, put
it under your mattress.
So when you sleep, you
sleep without being cursed.
>> GN: All right.
What else do we have there?
What are these statues there?
>> Leanne Marrama: These
are binding statues.
>> GN: Candles?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes.
It's a man and a woman.
If somebody wants to harm you,
what you do is you can tie
up the candle, and very safely.
Listen. The universe is
never going to help you
if you're leaving
a candle unattended
because it's carelessness and
you'll burn your house down.
So you write the name of the
person that has caused you grief
on the back of the candle.
You bind it to first tie them up
so they can't harm you anymore.
And then you burn it.
And you say, as it's burning,
"Like the wax of this candle.
Like the wax of this
candle disappears,
so will you from my life.
Go away and be great
somewhere else."
>> GN: I had heard that candles
come in different colors,
and they all mean
something different.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Absolutely they do.
Black is for banishing
negativity or getting rid
of something or to
bind or to hex.
Red is for passion,
at times for sex.
I like to add a lot of
red energy with love too.
>> GN: You wouldn't happen
to have a red candle
with you, would you?
>> Leanne Marrama:
No, I'm sorry, no.
>> GN: I didn't think so.
>> Leanne Marrama: Okay.
Pink is for love.
Some use green and gold
for money or creativity.
And blue for healing powers
or psychic abilities
with a deep purple.
Every color represents
a different thing.
And a lot of people use brown to
protect their special animals,
their little furry friends
that are like family to us.
Don't forget them in your
protection magic as well.
>> GN: Interesting.
I was raised a Catholic,
as you were.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes.
>> GN: And in the church, you
could go and light candles.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes.
>> GN: And you would pray, you
know, for someone at a candle.
Interesting ritual, and it
seems like it's fluent in,
you know, different things.
>> Leanne Marrama: Do you see
where religions are more alike
each other than different?
And that's why I know
witchcraft isn't evil.
It is not an evil religion.
The first religion on
this earth was paganism,
because the first thing
we did when we came
out of the world was
to look up at the sun--
>> GN: And worship the stars.
>> Leanne Marrama:
And worship the stars.
>> GN: Fascinating.
Are you also a medium?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, I am.
>> GN: Tell me about that.
>> Leanne Marrama: I talk
to the dead or I feel them.
Being a medium is something
that came later to me.
I had done psychic
readings, amazing tarot work.
I didn't want to be a medium.
>> GN: You did not?
>> Leanne Marrama: I did not.
It's a very emotional thing.
>> GN: Are you glad you are now?
>> Leanne Marrama:
At times I am.
There's so much grief in
the world and death is
such a terrifying
topic for people
that people have a
hard time realizing
that their dead probably don't
have a whole lot of message,
other than that they love
them and that they're okay.
The dead do validate and
let them know they're there.
That's basically their message.
And what happens is, if you
lose somebody you love so much,
you become addicted to it.
And I think, you know,
you get your one message
and that soul has to move on.
That soul has to go
do what the dead do.
>> GN: Right, and sometimes
we don't want that to happen.
>> Leanne Marrama: No, we don't.
We want the curses to be alive.
>> GN: We don't want
them to leave.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah, the
curses to be alive, not to die.
>> GN: Why hauntings?
Why are some spirits benevolent
and others haunt
the heck out of us?
>> Leanne Marrama: I
think because the spirits
that haunt want what we all
want, is to be remembered.
And I think those who
haunt want attention.
I am not a ghost hunter, per se,
but I have felt frustrated
spirits.
And what they want is just to be
remembered and to acknowledge.
And sometimes a haunted
place is a place
where great tragedy happened.
And what that does is it
changes the energy of a place.
There's a thing called
spirit of place.
Every place, this
place, has a spirit.
It has an energy.
When something horrible happens,
it creates a wound in the place,
and that becomes like a
vacuum that collects souls.
And that becomes a place of
hauntings, where people get hurt
and they get frightened.
But like my mama always told
me, don't fear the dead.
It's only the living
that can truly hurt you.
>> GN: Well, mama was right.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah.
>> GN: I think.
>> Leanne Marrama: I do too.
>> GN: Are you glad though,
you have this balance
between witchcraft
and being a medium?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, I do,
because I can say this
about being a medium.
I want everyone to know here,
there, everywhere in the world,
that there is life after death.
And I think that's more
of a mission, I feel,
to show people not to fear
death and to look at it,
to see it in its
face for what it is.
It's transition.
You fear the unknown.
It's okay.
You're going to live.
And there is life after death.
I honor people in October
with this event I run
with my friend Heather.
It's called the Mourning
Tea, in which people come
and they bring stories of their
beloved dead, and they purge all
of the things that,
you know, they've held.
And they share it
with strangers,
because this is how
immortality truly is.
You say the name of your dead,
and they come right to you.
You know, I show you
candles and a little
of this and a little of that.
That just gives it more energy.
But if you truly want
somebody you love and you miss,
just say their name
and they'll be here.
>> GN: Are you more a
witch than a medium?
>> Leanne Marrama: I'm a witch
who happens to be a medium.
Witchcraft is my religion.
>> GN: You're not a medium
who happens to be a witch?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes.
>> GN: Although you--
>> Leanne Marrama: You know,
witches don't have
to be psychic.
Witches don't have
to be mediums.
That's just a path.
And when you walk into
any spiritual path,
any spiritual path whatsoever,
once you really get into it
and really believe
and really read
and really study
all your faiths.
It doesn't matter if
it's witchcraft or not.
If you truly, truly study
a faith, you're going
to unlock something in yourself.
Something godly.
Something amazing.
And it might be psychic ability.
It might be healing ability.
It might be mediumship.
It may be just whatever.
But I believe that human beings,
we need to have the mundane
and the spiritual
balanced inside
of us first to be phenomenal.
>> GN: And now, let's go to
one of our viewer questions.
>> Hey, this is Edward
[assumed spelling].
And I'd like to know, can
anyone have the ability
to cast a spell?
>> GN: Nah.
You have to be a
witch to cast a spell.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Absolutely not,
and that's a great question,
Edward [assumed spelling].
Absolutely.
Anybody can cast a spell.
All you need is to
know your supplies.
And know what you want.
And know if what you
want is safe, okay.
>> GN: Some people
are possessed.
Do you use anything, spells,
to try to rid them
of that possession?
>> Leanne Marrama: Okay,
some people can have
spirit enter their body
and have a very difficult
time in getting it out.
Possession is a horrible,
horrible thing that happens
to people across the world.
I have used different types
of blended incense I used
to help relieve a human
being of evil spirits.
Also, before somebody comes
to me and says, "This person,
I know there's something
in there."
I believe in a strong
psychological evaluation.
I'm a practical witch.
>> GN: You are a
practical witch.
>> Leanne Marrama: I'm a
very, very practical witch.
>> GN: So you want the
mentally checked out first.
>> Leanne Marrama: I want
them mentally checked out.
I want to know if this
person's mentally ill.
The mental health area is just
as fascinating and strange
as witchcraft in itself.
You have to first check
out the mental health.
That's my first test.
>> GN: Do you believe everyone
who comes up to you in that?
You know, they might say,
"Oh, I see dead people."
I mean, do you believe--
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
>> GN: -- them at face value?
>> Leanne Marrama: No, I don't.
>> GN: Or do you think, "Yeah,
something's wrong here"?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Sometimes people are not well.
This is an unusual faith.
I talk to dead people
for a living.
I don't always get really,
really sane people in my life.
And I like my quirky people.
But I have to say, if someone
is really harming themselves,
and really.
You know, you see some of this
exorcism stuff and you say
to yourself, "Is it faith
or do I go to science?"
I say do both.
Do both.
>> GN: It's safer.
>> Leanne Marrama: It's safer.
>> Leanne Marrama:
And it's healthier.
>> GN: What is this soap?
I've had my eyes on this thing.
What is this for?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Oh, I wanted to talk
about washing negativity
off of you, okay.
So sometimes--
>> GN: I like that.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Yeah, we have--
>> GN: Hold that up.
>> Leanne Marrama: --
different types of soap, okay.
And this one is called
Halloween Dreams.
I mean, that's just
a fun, quirky title.
And it does.
It smells like pumpkin.
But if you look at the
elements that are in this, sage,
cinnamon, it's what
can draw into you.
I'm telling people to
wash and cleanse your body
and spirit before
you do any spellwork.
If so, if you're going to do a
spell, make sure you're clean.
Make sure the outside is
as clean as the inside,
because it has to work.
I believe in cleaning.
Yeah, this is good stuff, yeah.
>> GN: Let me see that stuff.
>> Leanne Marrama: This is
another thing to get rid
of negativity in your life.
These are coffin nails.
They're made out of iron.
And iron--
>> GN: What do you
do with those?
>> Leanne Marrama: You hang it
above your door or your window.
And what it does is,
if somebody's having
negative thoughts
about you, it can't get through.
It's locked up at the door.
So just that being sad,
I could add this to this.
>> GN: I'll never get
on a plane with that.
[Laughter] To be sure.
So you enjoy being a witch?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, I do.
I like my faith.
I believe in it.
And I find it to be
personally empowering.
And those of you who are
interested in the craft,
know that the first thing
that's going to happen,
you're not going
to fly on a broom.
You're not going to,
you know, turn green.
What you're going to
do is you're going
to be spiritually enlightened
you're going to realize
that inside of you is a church.
Inside of you is god.
Inside of you is goddess.
Inside of you is everything.
Being a witch is about knowing
what the hell you're doing.
>> GN: When a witch
loses her temper,
does she do strange things?
>> Leanne Marrama: I try
not to do strange things.
I have known friends--
>> GN: It's tempting, isn't it?
>> Leanne Marrama:
It's very tempting.
>> GN: Because you
have that power.
>> Leanne Marrama: You have
to remember to stay balanced.
But sometimes, when
certain of us witches,
energy is electrical,
and when you get mad,
you start blowing out lights.
I had a good friend, Sean
Pouri [assumed spelling].
Every time something--
>> GN: He's the one
you wished away.
>> Leanne Marrama: No,
he's the one I wanted.
>> GN: That's another
Sean [assumed spelling].
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah, that's
another Sean [assumed spelling].
This is a light, you know what
I mean, and he could blow lights
out just by his pure energy.
>> GN: Well, let me tell
you, you're a good witch.
And it's good to
know a good witch.
>> Leanne Marrama: Thank you.
And it's good to get out here.
I want you to know
there's plenty
of other good witches out here.
>> GN: Let's hope so.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes.
>> GN: Halloween.
Enjoy yourself.
>> Leanne Marrama: Thank you.
>> GN: And don't do
anything strange.
You're watching Beyond Belief.
[ Music ]